Ignore this file for context.

Projects Ideas:

-CLI (command line interface) 
with api requests to get info on a subject:
stocks, weather, etc
[python]

-A "Boids" Flocking Simulation


- Brain simulation:
Neuron cell simulation:

Intakers:
-Voltage Gate 
(Certain voltage) (Numerical,quantitative)
single ion (sodium,potassium)
open (when membrane charge reaches threshold it opens)
closed (at rest)
inactivated (during certain fases so it doesn't fire again or the wrong way)

when reaches

-Ligand Gate (type of ion) (Type of info)

-Mechanic Gate (Length,Pressure) (length of message, concentration)


receiving ion changes the potential of the membrane
[Graded Potentials] small changes (size, positive or negation,transient, not voltage gate typically)
when change occurs the cell rushes to reach resting value

outakers:

Sodium-Potassium pump (gives 3 sodium, takes 2 potassium)
balances charge

when the change in the cell passes a treshhold this triggers an axon potensial down the cell
this big change also triggers voltage sodium gates to receive more ions increasing charge of cell past 0 and depolorizing it from negative to positive.
It overshoots and the sodium channels closes and potassium opens releasing it out of the cell repolorizing it.

sometimes this hyper polorizes closing the potassium voltage channel, and the S-P pump brings it at rest again.

when repolarization is happening the neuron cant fire again.
when hyperpoloriziation is happening is harder to fire again.

when a neuron fires its either a yes or no.
what changes in firing is frequency (exp shar pain fires multiple times quickly, wind fires slowly)

some neurons fire faster than others (mylenin sheaths or olygodendrosites help with this)
for each sheaths the shot is faster

Every neuron has a resting negative value
when a small stimulus hits it seeks to rest again
when it passes a threshold it fires with action potential, it depolarizes becoming positive, then repolarizes becoming negative and then hyperpolarizing to reach rest again.

how to activate a neuron:
-high frequency on cell sending info increases charge on receptor gap faster than the cell can clear and this triggers it
-some cells are set to fire more vessels(ion packages) making the next cell fire more easily
-some cells dendrons(receivers) are connected to many other cells(hundreds) meaning if many fire it will trigger

EPSPs and IPSPs
we can have neurons that inhibit, bring negative charge to synapse or ones the excite, bring positive charge to synapse. We can also have neurons that bring both
Excitatory 
Inhibitory 
since neurons receive info from many  other neurons thes negative+positive charges add up to either trigger a neuron axium potetial or no.

Synaptic Plasticity:
if 2 nerons communicate often the receiving cell (activates coincidence receptors, that receives magnesium to call the cell to add more Ligand-Gated receptors, and tells dna to reproduce more dendrides at that connection point) so it receives more neuro transmitters(ions) when activated.
Also the firing cell fires more neurotransmitters(ions)
the magnitude of the change in charge by that neuron firing increases, increasing the wheight of that communication 


4-core CPU:
200million ops per milisecond

brain:
100billion ops per milisecond(conscious brain)











-----------------------
Spiking Neural Network (SNN)

So basically we could equate a neuron to a node. The node rests at -1, the neuron is back-connected to other neurons, when they trigger they add the wwhy deight of their connection to this neuron, if it passes 0 it triggers and shoots at the neurons its front-connected to. every time a neuron shoots and that triggers a neuron to shoot that causes the weight of the connection to increase

+ Bit-Shift every "tick" to leak percentage

+ event driven updates
Priority Queue

+Delay
neuron cant fire while


=
2d array to store
Bit-Packing
Sparse Matrix
Symetry
Ragged Matrix (Sparse Row)
Hybrid: 
|event-driven for more used
|time-stepped